Often, we need to execute a section
of code with many variations over and
over and over again.
Such a construction is called a loop.
Here is an example of a program with
a particular kind of loop called
a while loop.
The while loop executes over and
over again while a particular
condition is true.
Here's the example.
In this case,
we write the numbers 2, 4, 6, 8.
Who do we appreciate?
COURSERA.
Now the loop produces the 2 and
the 4 and the 6 and the 8.
Let's see how that's done.
First of all, we have a counter, a little
variable called ct, stands for count.
While ct <= 8,
we're going to print the ct.
And then we're not going to go start
a new line, we're going to skip a space.
And then we're going to add 2 to the ct,
and then we double back, and
we try to test whether or not this
thing is still less than or equal to 8.
So the first time through,
when we get to the while ct <= 8,
ct = 2 so it's definitely less than or
equal to 8.
So we then print the 2,
and we see it over here.
And then we print,
instead of a carriage return line feed or
a new line, we print a space.
Then we add 2 to ct, then we double back.
Now ct is 4.
4 is still less than or
equal to 8, so we'll repeat
the two lines of the loop again.
And after that repetition, ct is now at 6.
6 is still less than or equal to 8.
So we go through print the 6 and a space.
And then we add 2 to it, and now go back.
And it's still less than or
equal to 8, it's actually equal to 8.
And we go through the loop one more time.
And then we add 2 to it, and now it's 10.
So we go back and do the test,
while 10 <= 8, and
it's not, so
then we don't repeat the loop anymore.
We go down to the next line after the
loop, which is this print statement and
a print without anything in it like that,
just starts a new line.
And then we print Who do we appreciate?,
and there it is.
And then we print COURSERA.
That's the while loop.
Now, it is your turn to write
a function with a loop in it.
This next exercise is to
write a function count_down
that pretends to be
a rocket launch countdown.
It'll start at 10.
It'll type 10, 9, 8, 7, 6, 5,
4, 3, 2, 1, and then BLASTOFF.
Here's my run of that program.
Yours should look the same way.
Before you get started on this,
I want to point out the three parts of
the loop that you need to be conscious of.
First of all, a variable is
initialized before you enter the loop.
Second is, variable is compared to
some value of units at the loop, and
while this comparison turns out to be
true, you continue to do the loop.
And third, inside the loop, this variable
needs to be changed in some manner,
otherwise, the loop will loop forever.
Now you write your function, and
when you get through, press Continue and
I'll show you my solution.
Here is my solution, def count_down():
Rocket count down routine.
I initialized the variable ct at 10.
I check to see that it's greater than 0,
if it is,
I'm going to continue through the loop.
And what I do inside the loop,
I'm going to print that ct and
then I'm going to reduce the ct by 1
because we're going from 10, to 9, to 8,
to 7, and so on down the line.
When we get through, we're going to print
a line, and then we'll write BLASTOFF.
Now every time I write the number I print,
instead of having a new line immediately,
I print end = That'll give me a space
between each of the numbers and
it won't give me a new line.
I'll get that new line just
before I do the BLASTOFF.